Welcome back! In
this video, we are
going to discuss adding
and deleting users.
This is related to the
concept of authentication.
Authentication is the
process of a user
proving that they
are who they say
they are in the system.
Just like in a
physical building,
not all users should
be allowed in.
Not all users should get
access to the system.
But we also want to
make sure everyone
who should have access
to the system has it.
That's why we need to add users.
New users can be new to
the organization
or new to a group.
This could be related
to a change in
organizational structure
or simply a directive
from management to move someone.
And also, when users leave
the organization,
they need to be deleted.
They should no longer have
access to any part
of the system.
Or if they simply
changed groups,
they should be
deleted from groups
that they are no
longer a part of.
Now that we've
sorted out why it's
important to add
and delete users,
let's discuss a different
type of user, the root user.
A root user, or superuser,
is a user with elevated
privileges to modify the system.
Regular users have limitations,
where the root does not.
Individuals who need to perform
specific tasks can be temporarily
added as root users.
Root users can create, modify,
or delete any file
and run any program.
Only root users or accounts with
root privileges
can add new users.
So you may be wondering how
you become a superuser.
Well, one way is logging
in as the root user,
but running commands
as the root user is
considered to be bad
practice when using Linux.
Why is running commands as
a root user
potentially problematic?
The first problem
with logging in
as root is the security risks.
Malicious actors will try
to breach the root account.
Since it's the most powerful
account, to stay safe,
the root account should
have logins disabled.
Another problem
is that it's very
easy to make
irreversible mistakes.
It's very easy to type the
wrong command in the CLI,
and if you're running
as the root user,
you run a higher risk of
making an irreversible mistake,
such as permanently
deleting a directory.
Finally, there's the
concern of accountability.
In a multi-user
environment like Linux,
there are many users.
If a user is running as root,
there is no way to track
who exactly ran a command.
One solution to help solve
this problem is sudo.
sudo is a command that
temporarily grants
elevated permissions
to specific users.
This provides more of
a controlled approach
compared to root,
which runs every command
with root privileges.
sudo solves lots of
problems associated
with running as root.
sudo comes from super-user-do
and lets you execute commands as
an elevated user without having
to sign in and out
of another account.
Running sudo will
prompt you to enter
the password for the user
you're currently logged in as.
Not all users on a system
can become a superuser.
Users must be granted
sudo access through
a configuration file
called the sudoers file.
Now that we've
learned about sudo,
let's learn how we
can use it with
another command to add users.
This command is useradd.
useradd adds a user
to the system.
Only root or users with
sudo privileges can
use a useradd command.
Let's look at a specific example
in which we need to add a user.
We'll imagine a new
representative is joining
the sales department
and will be given
the username of salesrep7.
We're tasked with adding
them to the system.
Let's try adding the new user.
First, we need to use
the sudo command,
followed by the useradd command,
and then last, the username
we want to add,
in this case, salesrep7.
This command doesn't display
anything on the screen.
But since we get
a new Bash cursor
and not an error message,
we can feel confident that
the command worked successfully.
If it didn't, an error
message would have appeared.
Sometimes an error
has to do with
something simple like
misspelling useradd.
Or, it might be because we
didn't have sudo privileges.
Now let's learn how
to do the opposite.
Let's learn how to delete
a user with userdel.
userdel deletes a
user from the system.
Similarly, we need root
permissions that we'll
access through sudo
to use userdel.
Let's go back to our example
of the user we added.
Let's imagine two months later,
the sales representative that we just
added to the system
leaves the company.
That user should no longer
have access to the system.
Let's delete that
user from the system.
Again, the sudo
command is used first,
then we add the userdel command.
Last, we add the name of
the user we want to delete.
Again, we know it ran
successfully because
there is a new Bash cursor
and not an error message.
Now, we've covered
how to add and delete
users and how these
actions require sudo.
When using sudo, we have
to use our best judgment.
These special
privileges must be used
responsibly to ensure
a secure system.